Okay, let's work with user accounts in Windows 10.
This is a Windows 10 Enterprise edition desktop,
so it's obviously a business class OS.
That having been said,
this'll be quite obvious to you in just a moment that the general GUI in
the Settings application is very consumer friendly.
So I'll open up Cortana and type user accounts,
and we get Add, edit, or remove other people in System Settings.
Now this particular Family and other people category under
Settings has the options that we need,
not only to add additional user accounts to a Windows 10 box,
but also to modify your own account properties,
but it brought us here to Family and other people,
and this is what I meant that it's very consumer friendly language.
Add a family member, for instance,
and it's defaulting there to Microsoft account,
which as I said,
is one of those potential points of confusion for many Windows 10 customers,
and in a business context may not be what you want at all.
I'm going to close that out.
My internet connection has been kind of spotty here.
I want to focus on the currently logged on user,
and just the differences between the local account and the Microsoft account.
You remember earlier in the course when we did a
fresh installation of Windows 10,
one of the preliminary questions that Windows asks is if you
want a local account or a Microsoft account.
I much prefer to go with a local account that's not in
any way reliant upon the internet, and then as you see here,
again, I'm under Settings, Your info.
You can attach your Microsoft account to your local
account after the fact this way.
Notice that you can also create your picture by browsing to an
image file or using your webcam to snap a pic,
but if we click Sign in with a Microsoft account again,
it's spinning around here,
but it's going to eventually ask for Microsoft account credentials,
and if you're wondering how to create a Microsoft account,
they're absolutely free,
I've included some documentation in the exercise
files for you to take a look at.
Now as far as other related accounts, like SaaS accounts,
Software as a Service accounts,
that's what Email and app accounts allows you to do.
So, for instance,
I have a Comcast email Id that's connected to my Outlook email client,
and if I go to Add an account it has built-in support for G docs,
Google docs, Yahoo, Apple iCloud, or just generic email accounts.
So this is where you can stage mail accounts for view within,
well, if you have Office Suite you have Outlook,
otherwise, you could use the built-in Windows 10 mail app.
Sign-in options just gives you,
depending upon the edition of Windows that you have,
whether you can require a sign-in after the machine goes to a screen saver,
whether you want to use Windows Hello biometrics.
You can change your password.
There is other ways to do authentication with local accounts.
You can do a PIN, that's a Personal Identification Number.
You can do a picture password, which is kind of fun.
Again,
I'd encourage you to play with those options and check the exercise
files because I have some help for you there.
Access work and school is where you can attach an
Azure Active Directory account.
So if we click Connect here, once again,
it's spinning back to that Microsoft account.
It's trying to get back to that logon screen.
Work or school accounts is a friendly way to refer to an Azure AD account.
So if your business is using Office 365 one way that you might want to attach
to that Office 365 credential is to attach it right here.
So that's a quick tour of the Settings app.
I'm not a really big fan of it because it's not very direct,
and it's a little difficult to find, to be perfectly honest with you.
Now if you're running a business SKU of Windows 10 you can
manage your local accounts much more cleanly through the computer management console.